---
id: introduction
title: Introduction
---

import { FourCorner } from './fourCorner'

Open Payments is a standard for interactions between account servicing digital
payments systems (wallets, banks, etc) to setup and authorize payments for a
variety of common use cases.

Open Payments builds on web technologies to define standard flows for the
discovery of counter-party systems and setup of the payment for a variety of
payment use cases. This includes all interactions required, from the moment two
parties initiate a new commercial interaction, up to the point the payment is
completed. This may include discovery of accounts and account meta-data,
exchanging of identity and other regulatory information, agreement on the terms
of the transaction and authorization of any of these actions (including the
payment itself) by the account owners.

## Interledger

Open Payments is designed as an application level protocol built on top of
Interledger however the protocol could be used over other payment clearing
systems (See [discovery](./discovery)).

The [Interledger protocol (ILP)](https://interledger.org) is a minimal payments
clearing protocol. It was developed to mimic many of the characteristics of the
Internet Protocol stack in order to “internetwork” clearing participants. The
effect of using this model is a highly scalable and simple global clearing
network on which rapid innovation is possible. Using ILP, participants “peer”
with other network participants and exchange clearing instructions (ILP packets)
directly or indirectly with other participants on the network.

The advantage of using ILP over other clearing protocols is that it has been
explicitly designed to facilitate high interoperability between participants
irrespective of the use case. Senders and receivers establish the terms of the
payment before starting to exchange ILP packets to clear the funds. As a result,
technologies built on ILP are not siloed by the payment networks they choose to
support.

Open Payments is the next version of the
[Simple Payment Setup Protocol (SPSP)](https://interledger.org/rfcs/0009-simple-payment-setup-protocol/),
providing support for new use cases while maintaining backwards compatibility.

## Roles

<FourCorner />

Often referred to as the four-corner model, the primary roles in most retail
payment scenarios are the Customer (Sender), Merchant (Receiver), Acquirer
(services the account of the merchant) and the Issuer (services the account of
the customer). The four-corner model is very card-centric but still provides a
good framework from which to define the roles in the various Open Payments
scenarios.

Borrowing standard terminology from the ISO20022 data-model we refer to the
issuer and acquirer as [account servicers](./terminology#account-servicer) and
the merchant and customer as [account owners](./terminology#account-owner).

Examples of an account servicer is a bank, a digital wallet or a mobile money
provider. The account servicer will run
[Open Payments Clients](./terminology#client) for initiating an Open Payments
interaction and [Open Payments Servers](./terminology#server) to accept incoming
requests from clients.

For brevity we simply call account servicers ["wallets"](./terminology#wallet),
but always keeping in mind that this extends beyond the traditional definition
of a "digital wallet" as a consumer product/service.
