---
id: terminology
title: Terminology
---

### Account

An **account** represents the financial relationship between a user (the account
owner) and a wallet (account servicer). In Open Payments every account has one
or more URLs that identify the account and form the basis for interactions with
the Open Payments server in relation to the account.

From ISO 20022 -
[Account](https://www.iso20022.org/standardsrepository/type/Account):

> Record of transactions in specific types of assets, maintained by a servicing
> party on behalf of one or more owning parties. Business relationship between
> an account servicer and one or more account owners.

### Account Owner

The legal owner of the assets recorded in the account.

### Account Servicer

The **account servicer** refers to a role played in the ecosystem by an entity
that services accounts on behalf of the account owner.

From ISO 20022 -
[AccountServicerRole](https://www.iso20022.org/standardsrepository/type/AccountServicerRole):

> Party that manages the account on behalf of the account owner, that is manages
> the registration and booking of entries on the account, calculates balances on
> the account and provides information about the account.

In Open Payments, the account servicers host an Open Payments [Server](#server)
and also use an Open Payments [Client](#client) to interact with other account
servicers.

For brevity, account servicers are simply referred to as [wallets](#wallet) in
the Open payments documentation.

### Client

The component that connect to an Open Payments Server.

### Connection

Unless otherwise specified, a connection is a STREAM connection. A connection
between a sender and receiver on the Interledger network using the STREAM
protocol to send payments.

The [connection](./connections) resource represents the credentials used by a
STREAM client to establish a connection to a STREAM server.

Although STREAM technically supports bilateral payments on a single connection,
Open Payments assumes that a STREAM client will only send payments.

### Invoice

An Open Payments invoice represents an discreet amount of money that is paid to
the owner of the invoice.

### Mandate

A mandate defines the terms under which a party, that is not the account owner,
can create charges against the account. A charge will result in the wallet
servicing the account making payments out of the account.

### Payment Pointer

A special encoding of a URL that represents an account resource on an Open
Payments server.

### Server

An Open Payments server hosts the APIs defined by the Open Payments protocol.

### STREAM

STREAM is a connection-oriented protocol used between senders and receivers over
the Interledger network. A STREAM client uses an ILP Address and a Shared Secret
to establish a connection to a STREAM server.

STREAM supports bilateral data and payment streams however no implementations
are known either to send data over the data stream or send payments if they are
in the role of STREAM server.

Open Payments is designed on the assumption that STREAM clients will be senders
which fetch the credentials they require to establish a connection as an
`application/connection+json` resource.

STREAM is defined in [IL-RFC 29](https://interledger.org/rfcs/0029-stream/).

### Wallet

For brevity we refer to [account servicers](#account-servicers) as wallets.
Throughout the the Open Payments documentation this is used as a generic label
for the entity that services either the sender's or receiver's account.
